it wasn't supposed to happen a freak
accident during a college football game
leaves a player paralyzed doctors gave
him a three percent chance of regaining
any movement in his arms or legs but
Chris Norton didn't let that stop him
with incredible perseverance a positive
attitude and the refusal to give up
chris has made amazing progress and he's
still part of the football team
inspiring his teammates to be their best
I was on the kickoff team running down a
tackle the ball carrier that's when
freshman defensive back Chris Norton's
injury happened I got my neck hyper
extended backwards and the next thing
you know our quarterback goes coach I
think Chris is on the field and and then
it's like your heart stops yeah I was
conscious the whole time I was just
thinking like it's a bad stinger it's
just like my body went numb and just
it'll slowly kind of come back we're
talking about getting a helicopter set
up to fly to Mayo that's when I knew it
was pretty serious it's tough for
Chris's mom and dad to relive that event
you just don't know what to think or
feel or do as a father you're just
devastated you know it kind of hits you
like oh he's not just hurt in a football
game this is this is big just didn't
seem real dr. Ronald Reeve says that
first they suspected a complete spinal
cord injury meaning Chris would gain
little if any function back a few weeks
after Chris's accident it became clear
that his injury was healing and his
injury type was reclassified as an
incomplete injury still the odds were
stacked against him
but Chris who's known for his work ethic
and love of competition took the
challenge and isn't stopping I'm seeing
improvement all the time Laurie Eden is
one of several physical therapists who's
been working with Chris for over a year
initially they the outcomes that they
were giving them were pretty bleak and
he has just amazed all of us he is an
athlete he was trained to compete and
this is the biggest competition in his
life he's winning nice and here a year
after the injury on the gridiron Chris
is back back at Luther College is a
full-time student
nothing has came easy to me I've had to
work for everything I've ever gotten and
gained in life and back with his
teammates prepping for a game it's
exhilarating really to tell you the
truth it's exciting to see that he's
able to do so much now and he's making
progress every day Chris Norton or Nordy
as the guys column is honorary team
captain I just want to talk to you guys
about being able to compete there's
nothing I miss more than in competition
there's no greater feeling than winning
I just want you guys to go out there fly
around make some plays have fun but win
win today and as Chris's teammates take
him onto the field his family fans and
friends are there to cheer him on
he's standing strong on legs that months
before did not work really a great
feeling to see him standing for the
national anthem and then again for the
coin toss to start the game it's a
testimony to his faith his determination
his dedication to overcome it means a
lot to me to be able to be out there and
be with the team winning and moving
forward every day there's no way to know
how far Chris will go but everyone
agrees that his success at overcoming
his injury has everything to do with his
strength perseverance courage and a team
full of people who love him for medical
edge I'm Vivien Williams